# The Contributor Council License

Project Location: {{{uri}}}

This license gives contributors the ability to vote to
license the project to the public on different terms.

Each contributor to this software project grants an
irrevocable license for copyright in all their
contributions, as well as an irrevocable license for any
patent claims they can license that cover the project as of
their latest contribution, to every other past and future
contributor.  Those licenses permit sublicensing to the
public, any number of times, under the following rules.

## Effect

The effect of sublicensing must be one or more of:

1.  Make the project available on a newer version of its
    original public license terms, published by the
    organizational steward of the original terms.

2.  Enable combination of the project with other work under
    incompatible public license terms.

3.  Fix legal defects of the original public license terms
    resulting from new statutory, regulatory, or judicial
    developments.

## Approval

In order to sublicense to the public on different terms, a
contributor must receive and publish approvals from at least
two thirds of all available contributors, as well as at
least two thirds of all available major contributors.

To solicit approvals, send each contributor a message on the
following form, to all the e-mail addresses they provided
with their contributions, such as revision control commit
messages or patches to files listing contributors, as well
as any social media handles they used to contribute:

```
Subject: Contributor Council Proposal

This is a proposal to relicense a software
project under the Contributor Council License.

Project to be licensed:

  {{{uri}}}

New public license terms:

  [Insert new public license terms.]

Effect of relicensing:

  [Describe the effect of relicensing, and which of the
  categories under the Effect section will be achieved.]

If you approve, please respond to this e-mail as soon as
possible with the following message:

  I accept your proposal to relicense {{{uri}}}.

  I give you permission to publish this message.

If you do not approve, please respond to this e-mail as soon
as possible with the following message:

  I reject your proposal to relicense {{{uri}}}.

  I give you permission to publish this message.
```

To announce a result, send each contributor a message on the
following form, again to all e-mail addresses and social
media handles:

```
Subject: Contributor Council Announcement

This is an relicensing announcement for a software project
under the Contributor Council License.

Project licensed:

  {{{uri}}}

New public license terms:

  [Insert new public license terms.]

Major Contributors Approving:

  [List major contributors who approved, and on what dates.]

Major Contributors Rejecting:

  [List major contributors who rejected, and on what dates.]

Major Contributors Not Responding:

  [List major contributors who did not respond, and which
  e-mail addresses and social media accounts were used for
  them.]

Other Contributors Approving:

  [List other contributors who approved, and on what dates.]

Other Contributors Rejecting:

  [List other contributors who rejected, and on what dates.]

Other Contributors Not Responding:

  [List other contributors who did not respond, and which
  e-mail addresses and social media accounts were used for
  them.]
```

## Limit Liability

The new public license terms must disclaim all warranties
for the contributions and attempt to eliminate the
contributor's liability for any legal claims related to the
project.

## Preserve Attribution

The new public license terms must require preservation of
the contributor's copyright and other attribution notices.

## Definitions

A "contributor" is an individual or legal entity that has
contributed source code or source code changes to the
project under public license.

A "major contributor" is a contributor meeting any of these
criteria:

1.  The contributor made the first contribution to the
    project.

2.  The contributor has held the highest, publicly
    acknowledged elected or appointed-successor leadership
    position for the project, if there is such a position.

The "project" is the software project published at the
location listed above.  The project does not include
unpublished forks, or forks published elsewhere.
